# From v0.6 to v0.7

RMK v0.7 is a major update that includes many changes. One notable change is that RMK switched the BLE stack to [`TrouBLE`](https://github.com/embassy-rs/trouble), a great BLE host implementation with async support and better compatibility.

Updating to `TrouBLE` brings lots of benefits, including:

- More microcontrollers are supported, such as CYW43 (used on Pi Pico W)
- We don't need to maintain different BLE stacks for different microcontrollers. This makes BLE split keyboards automatically supported for ESP32 and Pi Pico W
- For ESP32, RMK migrates to Espressif's official [`esp-hal`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal), making it possible to use USB on ESP32S3. Now you can build a dual-mode keyboard using ESP32S3, with all the features of RMK!
- You can even build a split keyboard using different microcontrollers; for example, use ESP32 as a dongle and use nRF52 as the peripherals

The following is the step-by-step guide to update your project to v0.7.

::: tip

The following guide is for local compilation. If you are using [cloud compilation](../user_guide/create_firmware/cloud_compilation.mdx), you can skip the following steps and just rerun the github action.

:::

## 1. Update `rmkit`

```shell
cargo install rmkit --force
```

## 2. Update Cargo Dependencies

Many dependencies are updated from v0.6 to v0.7.

The best updating approach is to copy the new `Cargo.toml` file from the examples to replace the old one, delete the old `Cargo.lock` file, adjust the RMK features used, and then rebuild the project using:

```shell
cargo update
cargo build --release
```

## 3. Add the Path of `keyboard.toml` to `.cargo/config.toml`

In v0.7, RMK requires you to set the path of `keyboard.toml` in `.cargo/config.toml`. This makes the path of `keyboard.toml` configurable.

In versions before v0.7, `keyboard.toml` was located in the root directory of the project. So you will need to add the following to `.cargo/config.toml` after updating to v0.7:

```toml
[env]
KEYBOARD_TOML_PATH =  { value = "keyboard.toml", relative = true }
```

## 4. Platform-Specific Changes

### nRF BLE Stack Migration

For nRF chips, RMK now uses Nordic's latest SoftDevice Controller (SDC) in [`nrfxlib`](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrfxlib) as the low-level BLE controller, bringing better performance and stability, but it's not compatible with the old SoftDevice stack.

For more details about the difference between SoftDevice Controller and the old SoftDevice, you can refer to [this article](https://devzone.nordicsemi.com/nordic/nordic-blog/b/blog/posts/nrf-connect-sdk-and-nrf5-sdk-statement).

::: danger

The new Nordic SoftDevice Controller will be compiled into the firmware. Flashing the new firmware will clear the old pre-flashed SoftDevice stack, so if you want to roll back to v0.6 or switch to firmwares that use the SoftDevice stack (for example, ZMK), you will need to [re-flash the bootloader](https://nicekeyboards.com/docs/nice-nano/troubleshooting#my-nicenano-seems-to-be-acting-up-and-i-want-to-re-flash-the-bootloader).

:::

The migration process is simple; you just need to:

1. Update the RMK version in `Cargo.toml`
2. Update your memory.x according to whether you are using the uf2 bootloader or not

   <!-- ::: code-group -->

   ```diff [With Adafruit nRF52 bootloader]
   // These values correspond to the nRF52840 WITH Adafruit nRF52 bootloader
   MEMORY
   {
   -  FLASH : ORIGIN = 0x00027000, LENGTH = 820K
   -  RAM : ORIGIN = 0x20020000, LENGTH = 128K
   +  FLASH : ORIGIN = 0x00001000, LENGTH = 1020K
   +  RAM : ORIGIN = 0x20000008, LENGTH = 255K
   }
   ```

   ```diff [Without Adafruit nRF52 bootloader]
   // These values correspond to the nRF52840 WITHOUT Adafruit nRF52 bootloader
   MEMORY
   {
   -  FLASH : ORIGIN = 0x00027000, LENGTH = 820K
   -  RAM : ORIGIN = 0x20020000, LENGTH = 128K
   +  FLASH : ORIGIN = 0x00000000, LENGTH = 1024K
   +  RAM : ORIGIN = 0x20000000, LENGTH = 256K
   }
   ```

   <!-- ::: -->

3. Compile your firmware and flash it to your controller

### ESP32 BLE Stack Migration

Older versions of RMK use [`esp-idf-hal`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-hal), which is now community-maintained. RMK v0.7 now uses Espressif's official [`esp-hal`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal). Because the difference between [`esp-hal`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-hal) and [`esp-idf-hal`](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-hal) is significant, the recommended way to migrate to v0.7 is to recreate your project from scratch and migrate your keymap and configuration to the new project.

## 5. Check Out New Features

RMK v0.7 brings many exciting features, making configuration easier and more flexible. Check out the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/HaoboGu/rmk/blob/main/rmk/CHANGELOG.md) for more details.

## Troubleshooting

1. BLE peripheral doesn't work

   In the new version, RMK uses the nRF chip's unique address as the device address. If the BLE peripheral doesn't work after updating, it's likely that the old fixed device address is stored in the chip. You should [clear the storage](/docs/features/storage) for both central and peripheral:
   1. Set `clear_storage` to true for both peripheral & central
   2. Flash both central & peripheral firmware
   3. Set `clear_storage` back to false and compile
   4. Flash both splits again

## Known Issues

1. The dongle setting and multiple peripherals are not working